FUNKY

Funky is an all-purpose (pure) functional and object oriented programming
language. It can be used to write small scripts, application programs and just
about any software that does not rely on direct access to hardware.

One of the design goals was to create a language suited to create large
software projects in the realm of classical artificial intelligence (e.g.
"expert systems").

But meanwhile AI systems based on neural networks had an unimaginable boost.
To accomodate this new development an interface to use LLMs (Large Language
Models) is planned for the near future.

Funky makes it easy to write comprehensible software and at the same time
allows the utilization of the vast amount of execution units of modern
computers. The logical flow of control is always sequential. The functional
design of the language makes it easy for the compiler and runtime system to
exploit the lack of side effects to compute function results in parallel at
a very fine grained level.

Funky uses an indentation based syntax for *all* multi-line language
constructs including string literals and remarks.

It has a very simple syntax for defining anonymous functions which are widely
used. There are no keywords and no "special forms".

Function calls (the only kind of "statement" in Funky) can be written in
several ways that make their semantic intention more clear.

There are no loop- or branch-statements; they are replaced by recursion and
polymorphic function calls.

Variables have lexical scope but dynamic lifetime.

To ease arithmetic and logic operations, C-style operators (+, -, &&, >>, etc.)
are supported as *syntactic sugar*.

Funky supports completely separate compilation of source code modules. To
compile a module no other file than the module's source code file has to be
consulted.

As a functional language Funky uses value semantics. So no object can ever be
modified, but new objects can be derived from existing ones. This prevents problems
like deep vs. shallow copies, equality vs. identity and offers uniform semantics
for copying and updating.

The typing discipline of Funky is dynamic but it does not support duck typing and
arguments are not converted automatically (so Funky uses strong typing). Funky
compilers should test for potential runtime errors at compile time wherever possible.

The use of dynamic variables makes Funky well suited for parallel execution.

Funky offers uniform access to functions, data structures, methods and attributes -
they are all function calls in Funky. So the implementation can be changed later on
without the need to change the interface.

The definitions of methods and attributes for any specific object can be distributed
over several source code modules. An application program can add (private or global)
methods and attributes to a prototype object defined in a library.

Funky guarantees determinism: a program run on the same stream of input data will
always produce the same stream of output data. This makes debugging Funky programs
quite easy. All input events can be logged and a post mortem debugger can replay
these events and allow the user to run his program forwards and backwards in small
or large steps.

Funky allows defining objects and their parts in any order. Everything that can be
resolved will be resolved!
